- **Simple tables can have up to two rows of headers.** Each header cell should have `scope="col"` or `scope="row"`.
- **Complex tables have more than two levels of headers.** Each header should have a unique `id` and each data cell should have a `headers` attribute with each related header cell’s `id` listed.
- **Add title and attribution in a caption.** When adding a title, attribution, or a last-updated date to a table, include it in the `<caption>` tag inside of the `<table>` element.
- **Add an `aria-live` region to the page when enabling row sorting.** An `aria-live` region immediately following the `<table>` element automatically announces when the sort state changes for visitors using screen readers, but it must be added to the HTML document before load:
`<div class="usa-sr-only usa-table__announcement-region" aria-live="polite"></div>`
- **Don’t add `aria-label` attributes to sortable column headers.** Enabling row sorting automatically adds `aria-label` attributes to the sortable column headers and their toggle sort buttons via JavaScript. These labels are updated to reflect each column’s current sort state (ascending, descending, or unsorted) whenever sort changes.
- **Scrollable tables need to be focusable.** When you use the `.usa-table-container--scrollable` variant with a table, you must add the `tabindex="0"` attribute to the scrollable element. This attribute assures that users navigating with a keyboard are able to select and scroll the table. `tabindex="0"` enables focus on elements that do not get focus by default. This attribute does not change the tab order. It places the element in the logical navigation flow.
