- **Use counters to reinforce step progression.** The counter pattern (step numbers in a circle) attracts more attention to the indicator bar, but more strongly communicates step-by-step progression. Use counters when you want to reinforce step progression. Omit them if testing proves that this reinforcement is unnecessary for your audience.
- **Omit labels with verbose content.** Aim for clear and crisp labels. Omit labels to save space or if the step names are too long to comfortably fit in the step indicator.
- **Use the centered variant with centered content and headings.** The centered variant is designed to complement centered content and headings. If you have left-aligned content and headings, use the default alignment.
- **Center the heading with utilities.** Use the `flex-justify-center` utility on `usa-step-indicator__header` to center the heading.
- **Centered counters need narrower gaps and a thinner segment.** If you use a centered variant with counters, you should use a narrower gap (2px is a good starting point) to increase the continuity between segments. A narrower counter gap (again, 2px is a good starting point) can also improve legibility. Centered counters can also benefit from a thinner segment, as the centered variant focuses emphasis on the counter instead of the segment.
- **Pending text should use gray.** Pending text should use the gray family that complements the background and the pending segment colors. Use warm grays with warm backgrounds and segments, and cool grays with cool backgrounds and segments.
- **Pending segments can use gray or complete family.** Pending segments can use gray, just as with pending text, but they can also use a light grade of the complete color family.
- **The current color can be a contrast color.** The current color can be in the same family as the complete color or it can be a contrast color that distinguishes itself from the complete color.
- **Thicker segments use wider counter gaps.** It can be distracting to use a thick segment with a narrow counter gap. Use a gap of at least 0.5 units on a 1 unit segment.
- **Avoid wide counter gaps.** Counter gaps cap improve legibility of the counters, but wide counter gaps hurt the overall continuity between the counters and the segments.