- **Use the identifier component for required links.** If your site already includes the federally required links in its site footer, remove them in favor of the links in the identifier. This assures that site visitors find the required links in a consistent location from site to site.
- **Consider the parent agency the highest-level agency associated with a site or service.** In some cases, your site may not have a parent agency. If your site is the primary site for your agency, use your agency name in place of [Parent Agency]. For example, "[agency.gov] An official website of [Agency]." 
- **Display the parent agency logo, not the product logo.** The identifier is meant to identify a website's parent agency as a complement to the site footer. Site-specific logos, like a product logo, should be in the site footer, not the identifier. You may omit the logo in the identifier if it is redundant with the agency logo in your site's footer.
- **Display multiple parents and logos in hierarchical order.** If a site has more than one parent agency, you may display a reference and a logo for each parent in hierarchical order, highest first. For example, "An official website of [Grandparent Department] and [Parent Agency]".
- **Avoid distraction.** The identifier appears on every page of your site. Choose background colors that fit with your site theme and avoid color combinations that draw excessive attention to the identifier.
- **Keep the text up-to-date.** Use the most current version of the identifier.