- **Use thumbnail images consistently.** If you use a thumbnail image on one item, use a similar kind of image (photo, illustration, etc.) on every item in the collection. Ensure icons or illustrations have clear meaning that add value or context to the content. Avoid repeating placeholder images.
- **Use a consistent width for images.** Display item images with a consistent width. This promotes consistent alignment and easy scannability.
- **Avoid ambiguous, generic article links like “read more.”** The heading for each item should link to the full content. Ensure each heading is clear, concise, and unique so users can quickly understand what the content is about. Don’t include additional links that take users to the same place.
- **Use a descriptive title.** The collection's title should make the collection's theme clear — for example, “Recent posts,” “How-to videos,” or “Resources about flu shots.”
- **Link to additional related content, if applicable.** Collections may not include every piece of content related to its theme. If there's a location that collects more comprehensive results related to the theme, add a link to that location.
- **Provide a button or link to where more articles can be found.** Users may need access to an index or archive where they can find more articles than those listed in the component.
- **Provide a strong "information scent" for each article.** Use headings, teaser text, a thumbnail image, and meta information effectively to help users understand the value of each item and choose which ones to visit.
- **Indicate to the user if they'll navigate to another website.** A common way to do this is to add the [external link class]({{ site.baseurl }}/components/link) to the heading if the link takes you away from the current site.
- **Don’t force in-page scrolling.** Display all collection items in a flexible container so it displays without forcing the user to scroll within a component container. You can help prevent this by limiting the number of items in the collection to six or fewer.